It was a late night community meeting last night,
so I'm dragging just a little bit. My name is Joel
Derichen, and I am Assistant Vice President for
Community Operations with the Woodlands
Corporation.
My personal background started off in the public
sector in what used to be called urban renewal and
is now called community development. And I worked
for the Minneapolis Housing Authority, Housing
Redevelopment Authority, in Minneapolis as a
planner. Then went on to the New York State Urban
Development Corporation as a project manager,
and then into a nonprofit corporation called
Detroit Renaissance, whose ambition was to
redevelop downtown Detroit the Renaissance
Center, which is a large, major urban mixed-use
project. It was one of the things that we
stimulated to be done when we were there. And then I
followed my interests into the Newtown movement
of the late 60s and early 70s by joining a company
called the Newfields Development Corporation.
That was in 1974, which was, and Newfields was a
4,000-acre new community, HUD new community,
just outside of Dayton, Ohio, in a little town
called Trotwood, Ohio. Trotwood. Trotwood.
T-R-O-T-W-O-W-D. I had been following new towns
virtually my entire career when I was with
Minneapolis Housing Redevelopment Authority,
which was from Oh, let's see. That was about 1960. I
got out of graduate school. Where were you? I was in
graduate school at the University of Minnesota in
Minneapolis. Were you in architecture or urban?
Public administration. So it was an MPA you got in?
I got an MPA. And I took a lot of courses in the School
of Architecture and Planning because I had a real
interest in it. And while I was at the University of
Minnesota, I did an internship as part of the
public administration program there. I did an
internship with Minneapolis Housing Authority.
Having grown up in New York and seeing the public
housing projects that were developed there, I was
always amazed at how rational man could develop
those things. And I was curious enough that when
offered an internship, I asked them to place me
with the housing authority so I could see what kind
of idiotic policies might lead to that kind of
inhumane kind of habitat development. It turned
out the Minneapolis Housing Authority has done
some of the more outstanding public housing
development in the country. And I was pleased to
have been able to And then when I graduated, go on to
work there and actually develop some of what has
been recognized as some of the more outstanding
senior citizen housing in the country. So I never
did find out why New York City developed the kind of
housing that it did. I think it was more economics
and pressure for scale than anything else. But at
that time, that was the late 60s, two new towns were
getting started. One of them was Jonathan,
southwest of Minneapolis in a small town called
Chaska, Minnesota. And then the first new town in
town under the HUD program called Cedar
Riverside, which is on the west bank of the
Mississippi River, just adjoining the
University of Minnesota. While I was living and
working there, going to school there, I was able to
see what was going on. Was there any involvement by
the faculty in that kind of development that you
noticed? Well, the principals were actually
professors at the university. They started it.
And so, yeah, there was a lot of involvement. And
then the New York State Urban Development
Corporation, which I went to after, of the
Minneapolis Housing Redevelopment Authority,
was the developer of four, either three or four new
towns.
Actually, three. I think there was one in
Rochester, two in Rochester. No, I take that back.
One in Rochester, one in Buffalo, New York, and
then a new town in town in the middle of the East
River called Roosevelt Island. which the first
two of them never got off the ground to speak of, but
Roosevelt Island or Roosevelt Island did. And it
is a major in-town development and very
successful today. So I saw those, although I was
not directly involved in working there. I saw what
was going on. So when I had a chance to become
involved with a new town, Newfields in Ohio, I
jumped at the opportunity and was involved with
the planning and initial stages of development.
But moreover, I was brought in to a large extent
because of my background in the public sector. And
Newfields was in the negotiations with HUD
regarding the project agreement and the
financing. So for about a year and a half, I spent a
lot of time in Washington with HUD negotiating the
project agreement. In behalf of Newfields. In
behalf of Newfields. And we were successful. We
arranged a $14 million commitment for Newfields.
And unfortunately for the project and most of the
projects and in the Hutt program, they came on
stream just as the economy was nosediving into a
very deep recession that lasted from 1973 to 1975.
And Newfields— So you were in Washington about 72,
72? Well, I was in Ohio, but I was traveling to
Washington, going back and forth quite a bit. And
Newfields opened and closed. opened in, I think it
was the fall of 74, the beginning of 75, and shut
down in the fall of 75. It was just too severe a
recession for it to withstand. And Newfield, the
developer at Newfield, did not have the financial
wherewithal to sustain that project. And as we get
on and talk about the Woodlands, we'll see that's
one of the significant differences between the
Woodlands and the other projects in the HUD
program, namely stronger financial backing than
any of the other projects have. Yeah, that's what
they would want to be sure to work on a little bit, is
that since you've had such a very broad view of the
world, is to prepare that world for this. Yeah. So
I, continuing with my personal escapades, I left
Newfield in 75, and I did consulting among a number
of the new communities in the HUD program. They
were all having difficulties because of the time
and the recession. So I consulted for quite a while
with Park Forest South, which is a HUD Newtowns in
that community south of Chicago. And then HUD
asked me to come to Washington and consult on
virtually a full-time basis to help them with what
became workout attempts on about five new
communities. Shenandoah, south of Atlanta, and
several others, which I did. And I spent about a
year in Washington doing that. And it was when I was
in Washington that they asked me to do some work on
the Woodlands. The Woodlands had applied for a
fairly significant grant to develop the Trade
Center. And so I found myself representing HUD in
those negotiations. Met Rob Lapp, who was vice
president for governmental affairs, who was
representing the Woodlands Corporation. And
HUD wound up giving the Woodlands a $650,000 grant
for the Trade Center. And when that was all over and
my work was winding down at HUD, there was an
opening here in Rob Lapp's department. And he
invited me to come down and visit the Woodlands.
And I did. And I wound up working for him. That's
when you were on trade? Yeah. I came in. My official
start date was March 1st of 1977
as Director of Governmental Affairs. And in that
position, I was responsible for a lot of grant
work, HUD liaison work. local governmental
relations, working with the county, state
agencies, and regional council of governments.
By grant work, you mean you wrote proposals? Yeah,
I wrote grant applications. I think personally,
over the years, I've brought in about $16 or $17
million worth of grant proceeds to this
corporation. Overall, I think the company has
gotten something in excess of $30 million. And so I
wrote all the proposals to HUD for community
development block grants. I have gotten grants
from the state for parks and participated in
writing grant applications to the Department of
Energy for various demonstration grants. So was
that one of the reasons why LAP was interested in
you, or do you know? Yeah, I guess. But you never
actually discussed it in that sense. Well, my
public background was something they were
looking for here, because the Woodlands, being
such a large project, has to deal with public
agencies all the time. But at that time, We were in a
virtual partnership with HUD. And the
corporation, I think, wanted to have somebody who
knew how to deal with it. When I was at the
Minneapolis Housing Authority, I was dealing
with HUD all the time. Actually, I was dealing with
predecessor agencies. That was even before HUD
was created. But in the areas of housing, public
housing, low and moderate income housing, they
needed that here. We, as part of the program, were
required to develop low- and moderate-income
housing. We're supposed to develop housing that
would represent a cross-section of the Houston
demography. And one of the criticisms HUD had of
the Woodlands is it wasn't building enough
affordable housing. It wasn't building any low-
and moderate-income housing. I came out of the
public sector, a housing background, with the New
York State Urban Development Corporation. I was
building housing across New York State,
public-type housing. And when I came here, that's
another thing that I did. We have now...
Well, let me put it this way. When HUD was still
funding those programs, one out of every five
units that was built in the woodlands was a
subsidized unit. rent subsidized or mortgage
subsidized. And those were my responsibilities.
So we've developed either directly as the
developer or through other companies that
specialized in that, I think, well, over 1,000,
probably closer to 1,200 subsidized units in the
woodlands. And I was responsible for it. for doing
that. So in some cases, I was the project manager
actually developing those units for the company.
Or I went out and sought out developers who would
come in and do it because of specialties that they
had. And also, I brought that kind of expertise
into a subsidiary or an affiliate corporation
that we have called Mitchell Mortgage Company,
where I set up a commercial division specializing
in the use of government financing,
tax-exempt bond financing, industrial revenue
bonds, and government housing programs. Are you
on, let's say, the board of Mitch Morgans now, or
are you directly involved? No, I'm not. Let me
interrupt you. One of the questions you raised,
you said HUD's concern was that there was
insufficient or that there was no At that time, no.
None? None. Now, I've sensed in discussions with
some others that
Mr. Mitchell always planned, however, to have a
community of broad economic base. Was that
because of the economic situation that that had
been, I don't want to say neglected, that has all
kinds of values associated with it, but that the
developers were pushing another segment of the
economy rather than... Or was it because there was
no funding from HUD? Well, I think it's twofold.
HUD was recalcitrant in funding the programs that
are promised. And it wasn't until probably 76, or I
think 76 was probably about the year, when they
actually came through on their promises to make
grants and other assistance available to the
Newtowns to carry out the social objectives of the
Newtown program. And that only came about because
there were several developers among the 13
projects that were in the program that finally
went to Congress and said, we've entered this
program taking on certain obligations that
developers rarely, if ever, take on, and they're
of a social nature. Economic integration, racial
integration,
the building in the job base as well as housing,
those are social objectives, the environment.
developing in a way that's much more costly
because you're trying to protect the
environment. And HUD had promised the developers
financial assistance to help carry these out
because you cannot absorb those costs in the
regular profit picture of a private development.
It just can't be done. And HUD, as I said, reneged on
that until several of the developers who were...
There was an association of Newtown developers
that would get together periodically, and
several of them were very good in understanding
the Washington scene and how to get things done
politically. And they went to Congress and got...
If we're up to HUD, half of the stuff that we're
doing here in the Woodlands today never would have
been done. So in summary, this was actually HUD's
failure then, is what you're perceiving. I think
it was. Now HUD, on the other hand, had a
philosophical difference also with the way the
Woodlands got started.
HUD would have liked to have seen this project
start out with only low and moderate income
housing. While HUD agreed contractually that
there would be the entire spectrum of housing
price in the Woodlands, the staff at HUD never
really agreed with that. And they considered it an
anathema when they would come down here and see a
golf course. And they said, why is the federal
government doing that? Well, the Woodlands
Corporation, being a developer, understood that
if you started out just with the low end of housing,
you'd never get the cross section. You would
stigmatize the Woodlands as being another HUD
project. And they wouldn't differentiate it
between a new town and a low income community that
HUD has sponsored somewhere else. So there was a
strategy of building upper end housing as well as
middle end and as well as some affordable housing.
Rylan Home was building in here from day one. They
were building housing that started in the low 20s.
So we were not devoid of the lower end of the
housing. But HUD was chapped at the fact that we
were building, in those days, what were
considered to be expensive homes. Well, the fact
is the Woodlands established its reputation in
the marketplace as being a good quality
community. And because of that, we were able to
sell $200,000, $300,000, $400,000 houses, as
well as $20,000, $30,000, and $40,000 homes. And
this is unparalleled in Houston and unparalleled
in the country. That's good. That's a good
delineation. Now, do you think that character is
still holding in the Woodlands? Absolutely. With
the balance? Absolutely. It's getting harder to
do because of the absence of grants. We used to get
grants to do the infrastructure in areas where
we're going to build the low-end product, what we
call production builders, Ryland. Today it's
Ryland and Pulte. But in those days, Ryland and
there were some other builders building in that
price range. And what we would do is by virtue of the
fact that we had grants to build the
infrastructure, we would then stipulate to the
builder that their price range had to reflect the
fact that we could sell the lots to them cheaper. We
did not want them to get a windfall profit because
we would, in effect, discount the lots to the
builder by virtue of the grants that we received.
We had a lower cost basis. We passed that savings on
to the builder and then stipulated that they had to
keep their sales price within certain ranges,
which we had agreed with HUD. Did HUD understand
what was happening? Oh, yeah. Sure. This was all.
Yeah. And that's why they gave us the grants. So
everything we did in that regard had been reviewed
with HUD and pre-approved by HUD. And our
department... And then when he left the company, I
took over the department. It was to a large extent,
we were that linkage between the development
operations and HUD. We were responsible for all
the financial reporting to HUD and all of the
contract administration and approvals that were
needed. It was a very laborious and tedious
partnership working with the federal
government. One, I don't recommend to any
developer because HUD is trying to protect what it
perceives to be the financial or the public
interest properly. So I don't fall for that. But
the way they go about their business is very slow
and painstaking. And a developer has to be
responsive to market conditions, which change
quickly. I mean, we can see today that an incident
in the Middle East can affect the United States
economy very directly, and real estate is
affected accordingly. So a developer has to be
able to change gears quickly. HUD is unable. The
federal government is unable to change gears
quickly. And that was, to a large extent, a very
frustrating relationship.
And each party was probably right from their own
perspective, but it was a difficult partnership
to carry out. Essentially, the HUD association
was seized roughly around 82, 84? 83 was when the
final termination agreement was signed. We
worked on that for about two years. They told us a
couple of years before that that they wanted to get
out of the business. We were the only project at
that time that was continuing, that was honoring
the schedule of repayment of the ventures, that
was reporting to HUD. As I said, before I came to the
Woodlands Corporation, I had gone to HUD as a
consultant on our workout situation. Well,
mostly what we did was to figure out how HUD could
minimize its losses because there weren't very
many viable projects. Financially, there were
none except the Woodlands, although a couple of
the projects did get sold off and are continuing in
some semblance of the Newtown concept even today.
There are three others besides the Woodlands. And
those are, like, Roosevelt Island? Well,
Roosevelt Island was under a slightly different
program. They got grants, but they never had a
debenture guarantee the way the other 13 projects
did.
Maumelle in North Little Rock, Arkansas. is
continuing, I'm told, substantially in
accordance with the master plan. The St. Charles
in Charles County, Maryland, which is south of
Washington also, and Harbison in Columbia, South
Carolina also. Now, they were all financial
failures. And several of them have gone through
several owners since had foreclosed and sold it
off. the developers have, to a large extent, stuck
to the idea of a master-planned community. To what
do you attribute the success of the Woodlands? And
when you arrived here in 1977, 1980, during that
period, how did you compare, in your sense, what
was going on here as to what you had seen elsewhere
with the new town, new city developments?
Well,
let me compare what I saw here with others. The mix
of developers in the New Communities Program was
as varied as one could imagine. You had a number of
developers, like George Mitchell, like Don
Huber, who was the president of Newfield's
Development Corporation, where I worked, and
several others
who had visions, who had studied new towns in
Europe, and who really believed what they wanted
to do, albeit within the context of a for-profit
private development, was to establish
prototypes for better land use planning and land
development. Bear in mind that we were coming out
of the 60s, which were turbulent times for the
American city.
The cities were not working for the populace. We
had also had about 20 years of suburban
development, which had virtually destroyed the
natural landscape, had not provided the services
that an urbanizing population required, had
become
bastions of the white middle class, and they were
not integrated. And there were a number of the
developers who wanted to show that you could
create cities that would not be
full of the problems, replete with the problems of
the older cities. So you had George Mitchell,
Huber, and several others. Lester Gross and
Harbison. OK, so you had your for-profit, the
profit-motivated. Then you had your
non-profits. You had Harbison, sponsored by the
Presbyterian Church. Lester Gross was their
president of that corporation. You had Seoul
City.
It was in South Carolina, I believe, or North
Carolina. Floyd McKissick, one of the civil
rights leaders, wanted to build a community where
it would be integrated, but nevertheless blacks
would have a home where they were not second-class
citizens. And it had very much a civil rights bent
to it. You had the New York State Urban Development
Corporation, a public, well, it was a public
purpose corporation, it was a quasi-public
corporation, building three new towns with
motives that, again, were altruistic as were
ours, trying to demonstrate that America can do
better, can create an urban environment that
serves the people and serves them well. And then,
frankly, I saw some developers who saw the HUD
guarantee as a way of raising capital to do their
projects without as much of a vision of urbanism as
George Mitchell has and had then and a number of the
others. So it ranged over the landscape. I would
say most of the developers, though,
were forward-thinking people who wanted to
create a better environment and so forth. In fact,
the new housing legislation was sponsored by a
congressman from Ohio by the name of Thomas
Ashley. And he really, in the course of his career
in Congress, was responsible for a good measure of
the urban legislation, the community
development legislation, the housing
legislation. And gentlemen like Don Huben from
Newfields and George Mitchell and others worked
very closely with him. The new community
legislation is more a product of the private
sector than it was a product of the public sector.
HUD came along once the initiative was in motion.
But I give credit to forward-thinking developers
like Mr. Mitchell to get the law in motion. And
they, to a large extent, shaped Now,
when you arrived here, what was your impression of
what was going on? Did it jar you? Did it seem to fit
your sensibilities,
maybe? Well,
just a little personal side note, when Lapp
invited me to come down and visit and talk about
coming to work here. I was born and raised in
Brooklyn, New York, and lived in the North my
entire life. And while I was interested in seeing
the Woodlands firsthand, I wasn't that
interested in moving to Texas. And he did a very
clever thing. He said, bring your wife down with
you. Because he knew that the Woodlands was an
attractive community, and it was. After one
weekend here, I was sold on the Woodlands as a place
to raise a family, and sold on the Woodlands as a
place to establish a career. Which is still the
prime motive of the Woodlands. Sure. Oh, yes. I
bought the dream hook, line, and sinker. We had a
little girl four and a half years old, and we had
another one. My wife was pregnant. She was to give
birth within three or four months. And the
environment here was just so conducive to raising
a family that I did accept the position.
What I didn't know was how much in its infancy, or
what I didn't realize, the Woodlands really was.
It had opened in the fall of 1974, but had some slow
going because of the recession, which we spoke
about earlier. It was 1974 until about late 1976,
so for about a two-year period it was slow going. It
was just starting to crank up. I guess I didn't
fully appreciate the risk that I was taking,
making the move, because the woodlands had not
really fully established itself or gotten its
foothold. But fortunately, the economy turned
around. Houston
began its ascent in 1977. If you look at the graph,
77 was the year it really took off. And it turned out
not to be that much of a risk. We still hold the
values, the objectives that are embodied in the
HUD program, which are manifested in the project
agreement. There's a section there called the
development plan. It's Exhibit G to the project
agreement. I can get you a copy if you'd like. And we
still hold to those ideals. My department still
pursues low and moderate income housing. We still
may have a very active affirmative action program
to attract minorities to the woodlands. We
develop the project to be environmentally
sensitive. Our master plan calls for the
introduction of all of the services that a
community requires, be they public or private.
We've worked closely with the social service
agencies of Montgomery County to make sure that
our population is well served. And those are the
things that I do. I'm kind of the solver. But those
all were pre-existing to the Woodlands'
involvement in HUD, were they not? The goals?
Yeah. Oh, yeah, Mr. Mitchell. I mean, that was part
of his dream from the outset. Certainly.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, HUD, that's a good point.
I mean, we'd be doing these things whether HUD was
involved or not. The only point I was making is that
we became contractually bound to do them when HUD
was involved. We are no longer contractually
bound, and we continue to do it. Yeah, there's a
continuity there. Yeah, sure. And I think that's
what makes the Woodlands as successful as it is. at
least last quarter anyway, where number one in
housing starts in the Houston area, people are
attracted to it. And they come to the Woodlands,
and once they're here a while, they develop almost
a religious fervor for the Woodlands. Dare we
not... put a sign in that's tasteful or take down
one tree too many, we're quick to hear about it. And
that's good. It's good that the people adopt the
ideals the way we have and keep our toes to the fire.
Let me ask you another question about that. And
this may seem somewhat out of left field. One of the
things that's really evident, as we've talked to
individuals, is that like yourself many of the
people involved in the woodlands corporation
share have the same vision they share that vision
and they had it off times before they came and
working at the woodlands has reinforced it and
strengthened it
men officially those who who move here and make
their homes here also share that vision is that a
universal vision do you think among residents no
it's obviously among residents it is why else
would they be here but i meant i meant among you know
humankind we've heard that from one individual
and i wondered if you shared that notion i think
that uh as opposed to being you know to operating
upon a certain segment that maybe loves trees or
you know see there's people living out in arizona
obviously they don't know trees see i'm trying to
say well The aesthetic of the woodlands
is attractive to some people and is not to others.
I've heard people say, I'd get claustrophobic
living with all these trees here. You can't see
more than 20 feet in front of you. There are people
who like the open views. I
think,
given a choice, people will choose a better
planned residential setting in which to live. But
choice has a multitude of factors. Distance to and
from work. The Woodlands is reasonably far out
from a lot of employment centers. Mobility is
improving and we're finding that we're
attracting people who otherwise maybe five years
ago before the Hardy toll road was opened, before
we had the bus service, wouldn't have moved here.
But proximity to work, cost, notwithstanding the
fact that we have housing of all price ranges,
there still are some built-in costs to live here
because the service package, for example,
doesn't come free. So there's a community
association assessment is at Lauren Basin. At the
upper end, it becomes more expensive than in your
typical subdivision. We have a building code
here, which means that builders have to build to a
higher level of standard than they would
otherwise be required if they went outside of
Woodlands at 1960 or something like that. So
people are getting better built homes But per
square foot, they cost a little bit more. So cost is
a factor. People like to be near their family and
friends. And if you grew up in southwest Houston,
you're probably not going to move to the
woodlands. So there are a lot of factors which
enter in people's decisions as to whether to move
or not. I would say it's probably a universal ideal
that all things being equal, being close to work,
being close to family, being close to churches. If
you grew up in a certain church and your roots are
there, you may choose to live around there. And I
think that's one reason why we do so much better in
selling to people who are moving into Houston from
outside. Two-thirds of the people who move into
the limits year in and year out are moving from
outside the Houston area. That's one of the things
I wondered about. One-third of the people come
from Houston, one-third come from elsewhere in
Texas, and one-third come from out of state or out
of country. And that's been consistent since we
opened the windows. People are rooted and aren't
too likely to move very far. Believe it or not, you
know, from what people tell me, moving from
southwest Houston to north Houston is considered
to be a major move. I've moved around a lot in my
life, so it doesn't seem to be that much. But more
developers are doing master plan communities
around the country, and they're attracting
larger shares in the market. So I think, again, all
things being equal and an inclination to move or
having to move, people seek out the better
developed, better planned communities. Would
you talk a little while about the, if this is an
appropriate time, about the relations between
the Woodlands Corporation In fact, the
conceptual design for transferring control and
authority to the community association, how all
this came to be, and what sort of progress is being
made, and what sort of problems are occurring that
many were anticipating? That process of
transferring control to the community in the
community management business is called
transition.
Transition typically takes place... Is this
something you learned about in school? I didn't
learn about transition in school. I suspect they
weren't even dealing with it. They weren't
dealing with it.
Community associations as a
reasonably widespread phenomenon is only about
18 years old. 17, 18 years old. They really started
coming into play around 1973. And in 1973, there
were only about 500 community associations
around the country. And now there are hundreds of
thousands, tens of thousands. I mean, we've got,
we estimate, 4,000 to 5,000 community
associations in the Houston area alone. And there
has developed a profession of community
management in a national organization called the
Community Associations Institute, which trains
people to be community managers.
And I'm personally very active
in that, and it's been a good experience.
Transition is the process of turning a community
association control from the developer to to the
residents of the community. It happens in condo
associations, townhouse associations, and
homeowners associations. It typically takes
place when the development is about 85%
completed.
And this was a convention which has been
institutionalized by Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae
and HUD and so forth. So a developer has to do it. The
rationale there is during the actual phases of
development, the developer needs control of his
project. He needs to be able to make business
decisions about what's going to be developed,
when it's going to be developed, how it's going to
be developed, design decisions, and so forth. And
a community association is considered to be an
important part of development. It's very
important to the marketing of the project. more so
on the larger projects, less so on the smaller
projects. But nevertheless, setting it up so that
it's economically viable and all of the covenants
and the bylaws and all of that are done properly.
And that's the reason it's left in the developer's
hands.
But come 85% of completion,
the developer turns it over to the residents. The
authorities, like Fannie Mae and Judy Mayfield,
that the developers' interests have been
substantially protected, and it's time to turn it
over. And in those situations, generally what
they're doing is turning over the assets of the
association, the common property, the open
space, common areas, swimming pools, tennis
courts, things like that. They also turn over the
books and records of the association and any funds
that the association has, bank accounts, which
the developers hold. When the Woodlands was
conceived, it was conceived to be a 20-year
development. And in the covenants, there is
provision for the gradual increase of resident
representatives on the Woodlands Community
Association Board of Directors. So as a number of
occupied households would increase, they would
get more representation. But through the 20-year
period, which represented, when you look at the
projections, about 85% completion of the
Woodlands, the developer would have a majority on
the board of the WCA. A mistake was made in the
drafting of the covenants. And that was they put in
a date certain when control of the board would
transfer or transition from the developer to the
community. And they put in a 1992 date. Why 20
years? Well, when you look back at it, every one of
the HUD projects was a 20-year project. whether it
was Soul City in South Carolina, or whether it was
the Woodlands in Boomtown, Houston, or whether it
was Gananda in suburban Rochester, New York. And
that had to do with the length of the adventures. It
had less to do with the market that each one was
operating in. And as I look back on it, it seems
fairly obvious that the 20-year was a force fit to
coincide with what hud had just decided